---
title: Priority-driven research/Research in priority areas (for aging research)
agency: CIHR
---

# Brain Health and Cognitive Impairment in Aging Research Initiative

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/43629.html

The BHCIA Research Initiative will support research across the continuum from the healthy aging brain, to cognitive impairment and care for those impacted by dementia, as well as the wellbeing of their caregivers. New scientific knowledge generated by this investment will be shared widely with patients and their families, health care professionals, and policy- and decision-makers, through workshops, webinars, briefings, outreach campaigns, and other knowledge mobilization activities.

# CIHR funding and CIHR Institute of Aging Strategic Programs
- Research on: Risk Reduction, Care & Support and Caregivers
- Training and Capacity Building
- Knowledge Mobilization Hub
- Impact: Innovation and implementation

# Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA)
- Accelerate progress in research on age-related neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia, frontotemporal dementia, and Lewy body dementia. Established in 2014.
- Impact: Synergy between researchers

# Dementia Research Funders Alliance
- Bring together key stakeholders in the brain health and dementia funding ecosystem in Canada. Through this alliance, we will leverage and amplify dementia research, identify the scope of current activities and identify research gaps and needs.
- Impact: Collaboration with funding partners

The key goals of the BHICA Research Initiative are risk reduction (1) care, programs and services (2) and caregivers/care providers (3) and also the cross-cutting components: capacity building and training (1), knowledge mobilization (2), and partnerships (3).

Through the BHCIA Research Initiative, CIHR will support research focusing on three main research areas: risk reduction; care and support; and, care providers and caregivers, in order to address three overarching goals:
- Create knowledge about resilience in brain aging, identify and reduce risks that could result in cognitive impairment, and mobilize knowledge to change approaches to brain health.
- Improve care, programs and services for people with cognitive impairment and dementia.
- Develop, evaluate, and implement strategies to improve the health and wellbeing of caregivers and care providers.

The BHCIA Research Initiative will also embed three cross-cutting components:
- Train the next generation of researchers working on brain health and cognitive impairment in aging.
- Mobilize knowledge for impactful uptake of research outcomes with an emphasis on health equity and Indigenous Rights.
- Foster, support and lead collaborations and partnerships and engage stakeholders in the delivery of evidence-informed solutions.

# Dementia Research and Innovation Funders Alliance

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/53676.html

## Key Objectives
- Encourage dementia research and innovation funders to speak with one voice to align their dementia research investment strategy across Canada.
- Provide a forum for funders to work together to leverage and amplify dementia research, promote capacity building and training, scan the current dementia research landscape, compile and analyze data of all Canadian funded dementia research, identify research gaps and needs, and mobilize knowledge gained through dementia research.
- Support and enable the delivery and implementation of the research component of the research and innovation pillar of Canada's National Dementia Strategy.

## Our Mission
- Accelerate Research: We pledge to fund and support cutting-edge research and innovation that deepens our understanding of dementia, its causes, risk factors, potential interventions and also develop the next generation of researchers.
- Drive Innovation: We will foster collaboration across disciplines and sectors, encouraging novel approaches to risk reduction, early diagnosis, treatment, and care. Innovation is essential to improving the lives of those impacted by dementia.
- Leverage Data: We will document dementia research and innovation investments in Canada, including identifying needs, gaps, and/or emerging priorities. By doing so, we aim to create transparency and provide opportunities for collaboration to avoid duplication and improve the return on investment in brain health and dementia research.
- Promote Equity: We recognize that dementia disproportionately affects certain populations across Canada. Our efforts will promote equity, diversity, and inclusion, in research and access to resources and supports.
- Raise Awareness: We commit to encouraging cross-promotion and amplification of messages that promote research findings and their implementation, raise public awareness about dementia, dispel myths, reduce stigma, and advocate for policy changes that enhance dementia care and research and innovation.

## Guiding Principles
- Collaboration: We believe that our collective impact is greater than any one single organization. The Alliance fosters collaboration by hosting a unique forum for members to share perspectives and expertise. For optimal impact, we leverage the strengths of our member organizations and respond to their needs. We encourage open dialogue, knowledge sharing, and joint initiatives.
- Transparency: We commit to transparent communication, sharing research findings, funding analytics, and progress updates with the broader community. All members will retain their individuality and may act as appropriate in their own context. 
- Impact: Our actions will be guided by the potential to positively impact the lives of those living with dementia and their caregivers. We strive for tangible improvements in their quality of life.
- Inclusivity: We are committed to ensure the equitable access to resources and supports, and to actively promote participation of community members and underrepresented groups, as well as to support research that addresses the needs and perspectives of diverse communities.
- Long-Term Vision: We recognize that addressing dementia requires sustained effort. Our alliance will focus on both immediate needs and long-term solutions.

# Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging (CLSA)

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/18542.html

The Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging (CLSA) was created to enable research that moves beyond a snapshot of the adult Canadian population, and instead, aims to understand and observe the complex interplay between physical, social and psychological determinants of health over time. This source of data and biological samples will inform how Canadians age and the genesis of age-related disorders.

The aim of the CLSA is to find ways to help us live long and live well, and understand why some people age in a healthy fashion while others do not.

Findings from the CLSA research platform will:

- Contribute to the identification of ways to prevent disease and improve health services;
- Develop better understanding of the impact of non-medical factors, such as economic prosperity and social changes, on people as they age;
- Answer questions that are relevant to decision-makers to improve health policy and inform government programs and services;
- Generate new knowledge on many interrelated biological, clinical, psychosocial and societal factors that influence disease, health and well-being; and
- Develop Canadian research capacity and train future generations of researchers who will use the CLSA data and infrastructure to explore previously unimagined areas of research on aging.

The CLSA is currently in its third phase of funding (2021-2027). The specific objectives for the CLSA Phase III are:
- Continued implementation of the approved CLSA protocol, including two waves of data collection for the tracking and comprehensive cohorts, analysis of a core set of biomarkers and continued optimization of participant retention for a robust longitudinal cohort;
- Ongoing optimization of systems and mechanisms, including a communication and outreach strategy (that includes a data promotion plan) that will ensure responsible and timely access to high quality CLSA data and biospecimens, while meeting ethical standards and protecting the privacy of CLSA participants; and
- Continued evolution of the CLSA governance structure and business model to ensure long-term stability and sustainability of the platform and its related operations. This should include governance and decision-making, management and operating plans, succession planning, and strategies for partnership and collaboration that continue to position the platform as a world-class scientific resource.

# eHealth Innovations: Empowering patients, enabling better health care

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/47342.html

The purpose of the eHealth Initiative was to develop, integrate, and evaluate eHealth innovations to improve the cost-effectiveness of patient and population-centred care. The initiative facilitated partnerships between technology industries and health system players, researchers and end-users such as patients/families and clinicians to create innovative approaches to health care delivery, and results showed that the Initiative improved outcomes and patient experience in priority areas and increased Canada's competitive position in the health-related information communication technology (ICT) industry.

Conditions for success:
- Person-oriented rather than technology-oriented solutions
- Driven by small-and medium sized industry partners
- Creation of health care innovation communities made up of partnerships between researchers, end users, and health system decision makers
- Formal evaluation methods and metrics to support buy-in from the health-system

# Healthy Cities Research Initiative: Goal and objectives

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/51570.html

The HCRI is a strategic initiative with the overarching goal of improving health by maximizing the health-promoting potential of cities and urbanized areas in Canada and internationally. The HCRI will fund research that will generate a substantial body of evidence and build capacity within the research and practitioner communities around designing and implementing evidence-based interventions in urban contexts to improve population health and health equity. For the purpose of the HCRI, the term ‘cities’ is used broadly to refer to non-rural communities of various sizes.

Developed after extensive consultations with the research community and municipalities and government agencies, the three main objectives of this strategic program are to:
- Research Excellence
- Support healthy cities intervention research and implementation science on innovative, scalable, sustainable and equitable solutions, with a strong focus on complex evaluation for equitable impacts.
- Create capacity among trainees and practitioners in implementation science focused on inter-sectoral solutions for urban environments that promote health and health equity.
- Mobilize the use of evidence to support Canada’s cities in planning and implementing interventions in their unique environments.

There are six foundational building blocks of the HCRI. These funding opportunities have already been launched at least once and each one leverages pre-existing CIHR mechanisms or programs. Several of these opportunities are designed to be launched annually. They are built to be agile and respond to ongoing conversations with partners and the evolving needs of the research community while also providing the structure and foundation that work to achieve the HCRI goals and objectives. These funding opportunities are:
- Data Analysis Using Existing Databases and Cohorts*
- Healthy Cities Research Partnership Development Grants*
- Implementing Healthy Urban Policy Workshop*
- Health System Impact Fellowship in Healthy Cities*
- Fellowship in Research and Knowledge Translation on Urban Housing and Health*
- Applied Public Health Chair - Sex, Gender and Healthy Cities

*These opportunities have recurring launches.

# National Women's Health Research Initiative

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/53095.html

We recognize that the term "women's health" is conceptualized and understood in a variety of ways. For the purposes of the National Women's Health Research Initiative, the use of the term women's health reflects an evolving concept, broadly including the multidimensional concepts of sex and gender. It refers to physical, biological, reproductive, psychological, emotional, cultural, and spiritual health and wellness across the life-course in the context of the unique intersecting concerns related to our bodies, our roles, our social locations, and our identities. The initiative goes beyond the sex and gender binary and welcomes the experiences and needs of all people who identify as a woman, girl, intersex, and/or an under-represented gender identity, including, but not limited to, Two-Spirit, trans, non-binary, gender fluid, and agender people.

The National Women's Health Research Initiative will advance a coordinated research program that addresses under-researched and high-priority areas of women's health and will ensure new evidence improves women's and gender-diverse people's care and health outcomes. It will also promote an intersectional lens to research and care to tackle persistent gaps for all women, including for Indigenous, Black, and racialized women, women with disabilities, and members of Two-Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and additional sexually and gender diverse (2SLGBTQI+) communities. The Initiative will transform women's health research and practice in Canada by producing and implementing a community-based approach, committed to the principles of equity, diversity, inclusivity, and Indigenous Rights.

The National Women's Health Research Initiative will consist of two funding streams: the Pan-Canadian Women's Health Coalition, and the Innovation Fund (see components for more information).

The objectives the Pan-Canadian Women's Health Coalition - Hubs are to:
- Mobilize and scale-up newly generated and existing knowledge and models of care into effective, gender-sensitive, and culturally appropriate women's health and wellness services across Canada.
- Maximize research impact within and beyond the Coalition to help ensure evidence is integrated into health policy, decision making, and planning to support community, regional, provincial, territorial, and /or federal efforts regarding women's health.
- Build capacity for the next generation of women's health researchers through training and mentorship opportunities embedded within the hub to support the development of a sustainable women's health research ecosystem in Canada.
- Engage in community-based priority setting activities and identify future critical areas of women's health research based on community, regional and/or national needs.

# Network Environments for Indigenous Health Research (NEIHR)

https://cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/51161.html

The purpose of the NEIHR Program is to establish a national network of Centres focused on capacity development, research and knowledge sharing (KS) centred on Indigenous Peoples (First Nations, Inuit and Métis). The network of Centres is intended to provide supportive research environments for Indigenous health research driven by, and grounded in, Indigenous communities in Canada. The NEIHR Program will take a comprehensive approach to capacity building in Indigenous health research by concentrating on Indigenous communities and structural factors (e.g., educational systems, institutions, research infrastructures, policy apparatus) and by focusing on individual agency (e.g., supporting trainees and researchers).

The objectives of NEIHR are seven-fold:
- Support Indigenous community-based health research that reflects the priorities and values of Indigenous Peoples;
- Enhance the Indigenous community-based health research network environment that will support Indigenous leadership and research-related organizations with existing and new research infrastructures and platforms;
- Augment awareness, capacity and relevance of Indigenous health research that improves the health of First Nations, Inuit and Métis Peoples across all health research domains;
- Improve the understanding of Indigenous health research and Indigenous research paradigms through ethical and impactful partnerships between Indigenous communities and health researchers, scholars, professors and instructors, research administrators, policy and decision makers, and other parties with an interest in Indigenous health research;
- Engage Indigenous Peoples in Canada in leading and conducting health research and KS;
- Engage with researchers, Indigenous Peoples, and other relevant parties from different countries as appropriate, in order to advance the objectives of the NEIHR Centres; and
- Develop enduring NEIHR Centres with sustainable mandates to build research capacity, conduct research, advance Indigenous research paradigms, and carry out KS activities.